this is William O'Connell and we're
talking again today about the Warren
Commission report on the assassination
of President Kennedy and we have in the
studio Herald Weisberg the author of
whitewash and a even newer book called
whitewash - which is subtitled the FBI
Secret Service cover-up mr. Weisberg is
a newspaper and magazine writer and a
former Senate investigator and also an
intelligence and political analyst his
earlier specialties included cartels and
economic and political warfare and then
during the early days of world war ii i
believe your personal investigations and
writings were credited with laying a
foundation for the taking over of enemy
property and foreign funds controls is
that correct yes and the government got
a pretty good income from some of the
cases one of the things that I
especially wanted to go into and
treating as we are now some of the
evidence in the case in great detail and
with thoroughness I wonder if we could
examine the reconstructions by the
commission of the assassination itself
from the depository area on Elm Street
and also the reconstruction that the
Commission gave to the slaying of
officer Tippit and to lead into that I
wanted to ask you about a statement that
you make and ask how you justify so
categoric a statement when you say that
Oswald could have killed no one I add
one thing to it according to the
Commission's best evidence and I believe
on this subject
the Commission's best evidence is quite
credible the Commission established
Oswald's innocence because of the
bankruptcy with which it approached the
effort to establish his guilt everybody
is familiar with the more dramatic
aspects of this for example the witness
Brennan perhaps the least credible
witness in any official proceeding the
as a man who qualified himself as a
witness by saying that he lied when it
served his convenience he was taken to a
lineup to identify Oswald then he is
presumably the source of the description
and yet at the lineup he said he
couldn't identify Oswald when you see
the description you mean the description
that went out over the police radio with
reference to a suspect yes
now this addresses this addresses that
this simple thing of the description
that went out over the police radio in a
very comprehensible way addresses itself
to the integrity of everybody involved
we're led to believe that this
description came from Brennan
recognizing the improbability of it the
Commission said most probably now here
we have a man who is the source of
identification of the Assessor of an
assassin a presidential assassin the
police presumably are going to solve
this crime and they get a description
from him and they broadcast a
description but strangely enough the
police don't know who gave them the
description so when the case comes to
trial as presumably it was always
intended to they have no way of
producing the eyewitness either Brennan
was the eyewitness who gave them the
description that was broadcast or he was
not either description that was
broadcast came from an eyewitness or did
not now if it came from an eyewitness
how in the world were the police going
to produce him if he didn't if they
didn't know his name how were they going
to have a witness for the trial the
descriptions broadcast is not that of
Brennan it contains information that
Brennan did not give if any of this can
be regarded as information there was no
information as to the nature of the
clothes worn by the suspect in the
broadcast that was corrected by Brennan
but Brennan did give such theta-c and it
contained information on a weapon which
Brennan did not give now where was
Brennan standing in relation to the
depository what when we get to Brennan I
will qualify everything by saying
according to all right because this is a
least credible man in the world
all right then instead of beginning with
Brennan let's go back and see if we can
retrace in some kind of sequence the
reconstructed reconstruction again you
take it back to
as an earlier point than the 22nd if you
like mr. Weisberg in terms of what the
commission alleges in terms of the
reconstruction is to the weapon and the
paper bag and so on and so forth but I
think we should treat this in some
detail and preferably chronologically at
that sort well since we've already
started with this thing of Brennan let
me finish with that phrase because the
reader of the report has led to believe
that even though the Commission almost
disavows him Brennan is the identifier
of Oswald and congressmen's Ford in his
own writing for profit identifies
Brennan as the most important witness
before the Commission the truth of the
matter is that the important witness
here was a Dallas police officer Mary
Nell Baker whose credibility was in the
same class as Brennan's I have in both
books traced many of Baker statements
the thing that distinguishes him from
all other witnesses that I have studied
not studied most of them is that on none
of the many occasions he was interviewed
did he ever give the story that he gave
before the Commission now who are you
speaking of now Baker Marian L Baker the
Dallas police officer who had this
famous gun in the gut encounter with
Oswald in the second-floor lunchroom of
the Texas schoolbook depository building
now it is Baker who tends to make
credible Brennan's story that he saw
Oswald in the sixth floor window and it
is Baker who did in fact have an
encounter with Oswald there can be no
question about this there was now where
was Baker in the motorcade Breaker was
in one of the follow-up motorcycles he
was not flanking the president he was
behind it and according to his testimony
he had just turned from Main Street down
which the motorcade had gone through
downtown Dallas was he immediately
behind the presidential car several cars
behind he III think that this testimony
will place pretty much where he was the
motorcade turned from Main Street to the
right or to the north on Houston and
then turned to the left down Elm Street
which in a sense flanks Main
it was Baker's testimony that he had
just turned from Maine into Houston when
a gust of wind hit him and there was a
strong win there that day it almost blew
mrs. Kennedy's head off at the same
corner yes and just after he turned the
corner he heard the first sound that he
identified as a rifle shot he testified
that he revved up his motorcycle and got
close to the depository jumped off of it
and dashed into the building in the
building he picked up roy truly the
manager who is a credible witness and
they rushed upstairs intending to go
into the roof because what attracted
Baker's attention to the building was
not anybody in the window and he had at
least as good of us Brennan and I tell
you a better one because Brennan was
close to the welding I was looking
upward at too sharp an angle when they
got to the second floor are they're
they're sharp an angle to to really see
well because he was looking sharply
upward Baker was looking at a more flat
angle because he was looking not from
far away but from a little bit of a
distance I say Brennan said that the man
he saw was leaning up against the wall
and Baker as I say was looking closer to
straight on now it's six stories high
but the distance from between elm and
Houston is sufficient so that the angle
of Baker's vision included more than the
angle of Brennan's vision I make this
point simply to point out that with
Baker having had his attention attracted
by the first shot and having looked at
the building he reports having seen
nothing in that window I see and he was
and his attention was attracted to
immediately above the window to the roof
and he testified that the flight of
pigeons from the roof made him suspect
that something might be there and it was
for this reason not because he saw
anybody in the window that he dashed
into the building and he picked up mr.
truly the manager and they rushed to the
sack
fluor now to give you an idea of how
they rushed everybody to testifies about
it in effect says that Baker was
bullying people out of the way they hit
the two-way door the double hinged door
on the first floor that so common in
office is just a waste hide door so hard
and so fast that the mechanism wouldn't
operate and they rushed to the second
floor
now the stairway in the School Book
Depository building is an open stairway
this is the front stairway no this is
the back stairway backs this I'm talking
now about where they were going up in
the building they went they got into the
building when they went through the
double hung door and and at truely's
lead they went to the back of the
building as he's in the the first floor
first floor and it's in the rear the the
Western the northwestern corner of the
debate yes now there elevators there but
both of the elevators were up in the
upper floors so truly led Baker up the
stairs and they were really running
truly was ahead of Baker when Baker when
true li was going from the second to the
third floor he became aware of the fact
that Baker was not behind them and he
retraced the steps and he found that
Baker was inside a lunchroom
mr. truly is the manager of the building
building is and he was standing where at
the time of the assassination out in
front of the building and incidentally
he in common with most of the men who
were employed by the building thought
the shots had come to the right of where
they were standing and they were
standing almost directly underneath the
sixth floor window and to the right
would have been in the area of what has
come to be known the grassy knoll a
raised place along Elm Street now when
truly retraced his steps to look for
Baker he found Baker inside a lunchroom
this lunchroom has accessed through two
doors one of which has sat at a 45
degree angle and has what amounts to a
peephole in it not much larger than a
book Baker subsequent testimony was that
he saw something through this window now
had he seen something through the window
some
would have had to have been there to
attract his attention because the angle
is entirely contrary to the testimony
the angle at which he could have seen
something would have shown him a blank
wall unless Oswald had just walked in
but this is hardly probable unless
Oswald walked in and just stood still
because the door had an automatic
closure on it and the door was entirely
closed when when first truly and then
Baker went past well now they were
mounting the stairs when to not to go
into the lunchroom but to go to a high
to the roof
now I mean while these stairs are the
had Oswald been on the sixth floor the
only way he could have gotten to the
second floor was down these stairs which
means that he had to have gotten into
the lunchroom before he would have been
visible to truly and this is an open
stairway he remember and with wide
passages around it that we use for
storage desks were there and so forth
there was a large area so Oswald had to
have been inside the lunchroom and the
door had to have closed before truly
reached the second floor and I say
before he reached the second floor
because I've emphasized it's an open
stairway now as I say I have at least a
half dozen of statements by Baker in not
one case that he say what he testified
to he placed Oswald I'm sorry he placed
his encounter with Oswald up to the
fourth floor
he placed it at various points along the
second floor in and out of the lunchroom
and in fact he said Oswald was holding a
Coke in his hand well no did he testify
to this before the Commission or in his
initial interrogation what I'm talking
about is all of the various
interrogations which both proceeded and
even follow the restraint thing followed
his testimony before the Commission he
was interrogated after he appeared
before the Commission he was actually
interrogated the very day before the
report was issued
I can make absolutely no sense out of
this it is the most rudimentary kind of
an interrogation and I reproduce
whitewash too there's an FBI handwritten
report I'm sorry a handwritten statement
taken by an FBI agent in the presence of
witness he took one from truely that day
and one from Baker and this is a well
spaced single spent a single page in
length it's perhaps 150 words a very
rudimentary thing well how does it
differ from what he told the Commission
a difference from what he told the
Commission in two respects
first Baker says in this statement that
he was on the second or third floor
which is not at all the same thing as
saying he was inside the lunchroom on
the second floor and it shows that the
indefiniteness of his recollection even
after he had testified and further he
said more precise before the Commission
well yes indeed he said exactly what the
can what the Commission required he said
things that the Commission required and
he was led to say things that the
Commission required that he could have
no knowledge of what in your opinion did
the Commission require then as you put
he the Commission required that Baker
established that he could have gotten to
the encounter with Oswald after Oswald
reached the lunchroom now before we go
into that let me say that the second
thing in this statement of September
23rd 1964 the very day before 900
printed pages were given to the
president is that Oswald was standing
there drinking a coke no as that was
popularly circulated in the press at the
time the time right and then
subsequently denied and the Commission
goes to great lengths with a woman with
a woman witness mrs. Reid to have her
recall after many months out of all the
things on that tragic day that Oswald
was holding in his hand and a fresh coke
that he hadn't started because the
Commission didn't have these few seconds
to the time required for Oswald to have
gotten the coin operate the slot machine
that dispensed the coke and to open it
to start drinking it was time no matter
how few in seconds the Commission just
didn't have that'll become clear as I
tell this story well excuse me for
interrupting at this point it didn't the
Chief Justice himself pace off the the
distance from the so-called sixth floor
perch of the assassin to to the
lunchroom
yes didn't need to clock himself or time
him right right and what did he
determine as a result of that that the
Commission story was possible the truth
is that the Commissioner story was false
and I doubt if the Chief Justice was
aware of the elements of falsity mr.
Dulles at one point suspected it because
he asked of mr. Baker that the time
reconstructionist start with the last
shot and Baker said no the first shot
dela said the first shot and Baker said
yes the first shot and Dulles then said
oh and it's a very eloquent oh because
it is quite obvious that the assassins
timing could not begin with the first
shot but had to begin only after the
last shot in other words he had these
additional shots the Commission says to
to fire now again we're dealing here
with seconds and that's what makes us so
important so not only did Baker begin at
the wrong time but it's clear and again
mr. Dulles is quite helpful perhaps
without so intending in establishing the
fact that the timing of Baker began also
at the wrong place by about a hundred
feet so in this way the Baker end of the
reconstruction was considerably helped
how do you mean they were wrong by a
hundred feet well you see the problem
was to get Oswald to the scene of the
crime I mean to the scene of the
encounter before Baker got there so they
started Baker father away to give him
more time and then they slowed him down
and they slowed him down in two
different ways there were two
reconstructions involving Baker one was
a walking reconstruction which is pure
fraud because there's just no question
about the fact that Baker was running as
fast as he could not only did he so
testify and not only did everybody else
testify that way but how in the world
would he have possibly been rushing up
to the top of a building to catch
someone he thought might be killing a
president and walking not even for
Dallas police is this unacceptable was
there some testimony by spectators stay
most of the staff certainly affect that
he was either running or walking well
was he bold he bowed right through them
he scattered them in all directions this
is what I began by saying that he bowled
people over so you see by beginning
Baker at the more distant point and at
the more distant time a hundred feet too
far away and two shots too far away they
increased the time it took him to get to
this second floor by having him walk
they again increased the time but of
course the walk was pure fraud so they
engaged in an additional counterfeit
which had him in his words go at a quote
kind of a trap close quote
now Baker also did not go at a kind of
etat he tried he just ran like the
dickens so this is the way they
stretched out the time that it took
Baker to get there and on the other hand
they had a reenactment of Oswald and
this was a very gentlemanly reenactment
because they didn't want to house well
the soil his hands or to disturb the
array of his clothing the story is that
Oswald had the rifle and the commission
prints a number of pictures all of which
are indistinct and unclear of the rifle
where it was found on the city rifle
that's what the Commission says I tell
you he did not know this rifle was not
just tossed off someplace Arlen Specter
the now District Attorney of
Philadelphia says in some of his private
interviews and mr. Specter like mr.
Leibler and Los Angeles's so many of the
other Commission counsel are quite
selective and who they will speak to and
who they will debate they usually pick
either people who know less about the
story than as possible for to be known
or reporters who are knowingly
sympathetic they consciously avoid
unreceptive audiences mr. Specter says
that Oswald gave this rifle a healthy
toss that is just in defiance of all
fact in reality because the rifle was
hidden behind the barricade of boxes
schoolbook boxes and cartons of
schoolbooks cool books
about five feet high and it was not only
hidden behind it but it was standing in
the same position in which it is held
when it is operated it was carefully
placed this is not all their photographs
of the position of the rifle when it was
found in the Warren Commission report
yes indeed but these are incompetent
photographs because the Commission found
that it was better for some of his
pictures to be less clear than they
could have been I went to the original
source of the pictures and the
Commission's files and I reproduced the
picture one of the many pictures and
there's a whole incredible story here we
can come back to about the kind of
photography the photographer getting
himself in the picture and making
fingerprints all over the place but this
rifle in addition to that was put under
a bridge of boxes there are 260 pound
cartons of boxes which overlap and form
a bridge and it was underneath these
boxes inside the barricade that the
rifle was hidden now he went to this
detail smoke this out way how much 60
pounds of piece on the average this came
out subsequently when the Commission
wanted to know how heavy the boxes were
because some boxes were moved they were
repairing the floor that day and a
considerable number of boxes had been
moved and stacked in places they
ordinarily were not kept so Oswald had
to scale the barricade about five feet
high
very carefully placed the rifle on the
floor very carefully push it underneath
the bridge formed by two boxes one of
which rested on the other with a
movement space underneath them then come
out in the course of doing this I will
anticipate myself a little bit in the
course of doing this the subsequent
investigation by the police established
another qualification and he had to
leave no fingerprints now mr. truly was
asked you will not find in the report
but I have that report I have the FBI
report on this why the Commission left
this out only the Commission can answer
but the question came up about gloves
and Mullen said he wore no gloves did
they not it was more than just that none
of the employees there used any gloves
none of the employees on the sixth floor
when I say yeah of course I meant on yes
now however these boxes were checked for
fingerprints by the Dallas police now
here we have an entire barricade of
boxes four sides five feet high and the
boxes inside under which the rifle was
hidden and strangely enough they bore
not a single fingerprint not any kind of
a fingerprint whereas the cartons at the
window or near the sixth floor window
did bear certain finger prints what
fingerprints were found on those box
Oswald's the fingerprint of the Dallas
Police investigative officer officer
Studebaker FBI people I think there were
more FBI prints than anything else
well now you argue in your book and it
seems to me quite quite reasonable use
you maintain that there's no reason why
our walls fingerprints should not have
been on those exactly that particular
time he was supposed to be moving
cartons on the sixth floor of the
deposit he was paid to do it his it's
very clear that most of his work was on
the sixth floor each of the employees
specialized in the books of a particular
publisher and Oswald's function was
largely with books published by scott
foresman and they were stored exactly
where the boxes that had his
fingerprints were so there's nothing at
all unusual about that what is unusual
as boxes without fingerprints we've got
an entire barricade made Oswald's
supposed to have gone over it to put the
gun behind it and he had to come out
because he wasn't there and no
fingerprints on this barricade of boxes
so when the Commission re-enacted the
time it would have required Oswald to go
from the sixth floor to the second floor
they found that expedient for someone
else not Oswald to dispose of the rifle
I I mean this is so much of a charade
it's just so unbelievable that I
involuntarily laughter say they found
someone else to dispose of the rifle oh
yes
they just didn't time Oswald's going
over the bear
Kait he just handed the rifle as he
walked past just handed it to another
the man who took Oswald's place was John
Joe Hallett The Secret Service agent
regular stationed in the Dallas office
so as he walked through when he had the
walk they couldn't have Oswald run
because there were three employees
underneath and they this is not a you're
speaking of the men who were duplicated
what the Commission said Oswald was the
correct and his name was John Joe
Hallett the Secret Service agent of the
Dallas office now the the sixth floor
was so thoroughly stacked with books
that it wasn't possible to take a
diagonal from the southeast corner to
the northwest corner so the in
reenactment
Hallet winded his way a lot faster I'm
sure than Oswald could have had he been
there and I again say he was not there
and when he got to the stack of boxes it
was though as though he said please kind
sir will you take this and hand that the
rifle that he walked on down the stairs
now in this this is one of the ways in
which Oswald's time was shortened
because the problem was to get Oswald to
the encounter before Baker if he didn't
get there not only before Baker
but before truly could even have seen
him as Oswalt was coming down the stairs
and truly Lou these were not acre yes
then the whole story is false which of
course it is
so also Oswald couldn't be running
because underneath Oswald allegedly on
the fifth floor were three employees of
the depository and these were men with
remarkably acute hearing they could hear
the shells drop as the gun was fired and
that's not the only thing remarkable
about these men they were able to
attract to themselves variations in the
law of nature they were able to alter
the law of nature so that the Commission
story could be helped and not giving an
example of these remarkable powers
because all of this is a remarkable
story there was Bonnie ray Williams who
was looking out the window
his head was through the window there
are existing pictures you may remember
Dillard's pictures as the target for
analysis yes they very clearly show that
at the time of the assassination
Williams head was through the window now
this was not a wall like in a house this
was a foot and a half thick wall and
Williams had his head out of that but
the testimony of these men is that the
explosion of the shots above them which
didn't deaf in their ears they could
hear the shells fall was of such great
power that in this very durably built
warehouse building where thousands and
thousands and thousands of pounds of
books were in small areas of a floor the
explosion of this one small shell
because the bullets only about a quarter
of an inch in diameter was sufficient to
jar dust and debris loose from the
ceiling of the fifth floor which is of
course part of the floor of the sixth
and it fell down and it fell on Williams
head yes now in order to do this it had
to have an l-shaped fall mr. Newton was
not consulted no who's mr. muse
Isaac Newton and the law of gravity this
this debris must have fallen not only
straight down but then it must have
executed a 90-degree turn and gone out
into the face of the incoming wind from
the open window and to have deposited
itself upon mr. Williams head well now
you're basing this on your study of the
well it isn't the study all you have to
look at it is that the Dillard
photograph and determine read the
testimony
well now the Dillard photograph was
taken during the assassination is that
Kristen she was approaching yes Fawcett
or II on he was in advance of six-car
and he was on Houston Street and he
looked up clear view yes straight ahead
he snapped one picture instinctively and
he then when the car got to the corner
he jumped out and changed lenses and
snapped another picture well he snapped
the depository he felt that there was a
gun or he thought that he had seen
something stick out or I forgotten now
either he or another one of the news men
in the car
saw a projection from the sixth floor
window and he immediately snapped it and
this is a waiting newspaper
photographers work so we have Oswald in
reenactment leaving
he can't run and he doesn't put the
rifle away and he goes down the stairs
with all of this the time of Oswald and
the time of Baker with Baker at only a
kind of trot with all of these errors in
favor of the situation the Commission
was trying to create they still couldn't
get Baker to the second-floor lunchroom
after Oswald the difference was perhaps
a second I don't want to quote
statistics and be wrong but I think the
difference was something like one minute
and 14 seconds in 1 minute and 15
seconds now this 1 second difference
even if we accede to the hundred feet
error hundred foot error in Baker's
beginning point and the two-shot error
in Baker's beginning point in addition
to that and if we forget all about this
great magic attributed to Oswald the
scaling barricades and hiding rifles
without taking any time and without
leaving any fingerprints with all of
this with only a 1 second interval it
just isn't possible because remember
there was right truly in advance and
there was the open stairway Roy truly
could have seen the lunchroom door when
he was only halfway from the first floor
to the second floor is there any
testimony to suggest from people who
worked in the depository who were there
in the building that particular day day
that they heard anyone running down the
stairs or to say the contrary all the
people who were questions say exactly
the opposite that no one went down the
stairs
no one went down the elevators there was
one employee on the fifth floor Jack
Daugherty who was right at both the
elevators and stairs because they're
side-by-side and he said at that time he
was there and nobody went past so the
Commission just ignores that now Jack
Daugherty was the he figures in another
story that will come as the person that
saw Oswald into the building the only
person who saw Oswald enter the building
that morning was Jack Daugherty and he
swore that Oswald carried nothing
this is misrepresented regularly by the
report and the Commission counsel who
say that they already thought
he saw nothing and thought he saw Oswald
under the building Dirty's testimony was
explicitly he said absolutely and he was
asked this word well now with reference
to the paper bag I want to ask you a
question when Oswald arrived at the
depository that morning he was in
company of Wesley Frasier who drove him
from Irving may I suggest a rephrasing
when they arrived at the parking lot
they were together or Oswald left in
advance what happened after they arrived
at the parking lot well in order to tell
you what happened whether when they
arrived I'm gonna have to depart from
the report because the report finds it
expedient to make a slur to to make an
entirely invalid inference that
inference is there was something
sinister in that for the first time on a
number of occasions on which Frazer had
driven Oswald to the depository building
where they both worked Oswald had need
to leave ahead of Frasier would you make
very clear in your book you quote the
testimony to the effect Fraser was
driving an old car and that he decided
to remain in the car for a few minutes
to charge its battery you know this is
in the testimony but it's not in the
report the report makes the sneaky
inference I was just giving you I think
we should back up a little bit on
Frasier and take the story more
chronologically if you don't mind please
people understand we're talking about
this additional piece of magic the
homemade bag in which in defiance of
100% of its testimony testimony the
Commission livers that Oswald took a
disassembled rifle into the building I
think we ought to begin the story the
day before and to say that Buell Wesley
Frazer a young man who was Oswald's
coworker lived with his sister who lived
a block away from the residence of Ruth
Payne and Irving Texas a suburb of
Dallas where marina lived all the time
and where Oswald spent weekends and he
listed it as his residence and as a
matter of fact that police acknowledge
that at his residence the rooming house
he had in Dallas was a temporary
temporary thing of the room in a rooming
house
the night before the assassination
according to the testimony and this is
only phrases because remember Oswald was
denied testimony by the simple expedient
of allowing him to be murdered and this
is no exaggeration Oswald was murdered
only because the police made it possible
Oswald said he when do they go to Irving
and Fraser said of course he'd take them
and this is the way they know Oswald
normally went back and forth
subsequently when Fraser was
interrogated by the Commission he made
it explicit that Oswald had nothing with
him and that on none of the occasions
that he had taken Oswald to Irving from
Dallas had Oswald ever carried anything
in defiance of this which is 100% of his
testimony the Commission alleges in the
report the laws Wald took a bag that he
had fashioned from them it's wrapping
materials in the depository to Irving
now this bag is clearly visible and the
Commission's photographs is a remarkable
bag
we have remarkable bullets remarkable
reconstructions everything is remarkable
what's remarkable about this bag that it
would hold creases hold them for months
but it wouldn't hold stains it wouldn't
hold fingerprints it wouldn't hold the
markings of a rifle this was the
testimony of Cadogan was at the in part
yes is he an FBI yes he's an expert in
the sort of technical information now
the pictures of this bag show it was
folded into squares that looked to be
about ten inches square and I suggest
this will not fit into anybody's pocket
so that when Fraser said that Oswald was
carrying nothing I think his testimony
is credible because a 10 inch package
even if it's a small package I mean if
you ask a man that so-and-so have a
newspaper he remembered that small now
you refer to a 10 inch package it's
approximately a 10 inch square into
which the bag was folded I say
approximately because the report doesn't
tell us they think they find it
expedient to make no reference to this
when they you deal with the testimony
and the the attempt to test the
recollection on the part of the
Commission to test the recollection of
the wood
the witnesses Fraser and Randall yes as
are these eyes or rather the the length
of the bag as Oswald was carrying yes
so in defiance of its only testimony the
Commission says Oswald took the back bag
to Irving Texas now again we have this
strange strangeness he took the bag to
Irving Texas you said an empty bag that
he had fashioned from wrapping materials
at the depository no I did not say it I
say he did not but the report says it
they had to get the bag later in order
to get the rifle into the bag to get the
bag on the rifle into the building so
the president could get killed in their
version can you tell how the bag was
constructed well I can tell you how they
say it was constructed I do not vouch
for it and I do not believe it the bag
is supposed to have been made of
wrapping paper taken from a roll of
wrapping paper that was then currently
in use in the Book Depository building
and to have been shaped by folding and
to have been sealed by paper tape that
is used to wrap packages to seal them
now there was one man than only one man
who was in charge of the wrapping table
and he was unlike most of the other
employees of the Texas School Book
Depository I mean who was almost lashed
to his workbench this was Troy Eugene
Troy eugene West the commission which
has so much trouble with the testimony
on the bag and which had to use
testimony which was diametrically
opposed to its conclusion decided that
it had best forget all about the
testimony of Troy Eugene West and he is
not mentioned in the report but it was
the testimony of West that he got to
work early fill the plot with water so
he could make coffee and there ever and
thereafter never left his workbench the
wrapping table for the rest of the day
day was that the Davis testimony I don't
recall but no I mean when did he he's
referring to his arrival at the deposit
every day and I see this was his custom
he never left his work been she said and
he said that Oswald was never there that
Oswald never got any paper that he never
had access to any
/ he testified 100% against the interest
of the Commission's
story that Oswald was the assassin now
you point out in the in your study
whitewash that the the tape that would
be used in fashioning the bag came from
a dispenser in a wet condition that's
correct again this is from the testimony
of West because the tape from which this
bag was made bore the cutting edge marks
of the dispenser
when tape is dispensed and is torn off
or cut off there is a mark left and it's
identifiable it's sawtooth usually
sometimes it's not and in this case the
tape on one end which really means two
ends will bore the mark and the tape at
the other end did not like it was torn
you know by hand but the mark of the
cutter is there so West was asked about
this because after all the Commission
counsel wanted to show that Oswald could
have done it so West said there is no
way of taking tape from this machine
without it being wet and without it
bearing the mark of the cutting edge
without disassembling the machine now if
the tape is dispensed through the
machine and I've used many of these as
perhaps you have they all have one thing
in common there is a reservoir of water
and a brush like device which rests in
the water and by capillary action water
is fed up to where the tape is and the
tape slides across brushes across the
top of this brush and thereby becomes
wet so that when it comes out of the
machine and is dispensed its in
condition to use and this invariably is
so unless that's Russ said you
disassembled the machine and when you
disassembled the machine you don't have
the marks of the cutting edge
so here again West is totally
destructive to the Commission's evidence
now we'll get back to Oswald about to
commit this crime and despite all this
evidence
which is 100% opposite to his
conclusions the Commission by its own
special kind of evidence has him in
Irving Texas where nobody sees him with
a bag nobody sees him with a rifle
nobody sees him take a rifle apart
nobody sees him put a rifle taken apart
or not taken apart into this bag and
nobody sees him leave the pain residence
with them instead what actually happened
is that Oswald went to bed early that
night and he was so completely
untroubled by this awful deed he was
preparing that he slips for the alarm
clock the next day he not only slept
long but he slept well and about 20
minutes after the alarm clock went off
morena woke up and this is her story
because after all we still have no estas
Walz story because the police never kept
any record according to their a story of
the interrogations so marinas tells us
that she awakened Oswald about 10
minutes after 7:00 and that his Rai
usually left at 20 after sometimes 25
and she offered to make breakfast for
Oswald and he said no that he'd take
care of it himself
and he said you stay behind and take
care of the babies so Oswald ran
downstairs and didn't make any breakfast
and went down to the Randall residence
in the next block do we have any
testimony as to whether he made a lunch
it wasn't he often the dogs were taking
lunch with him this time he did not he
did not this time he did not and there's
an additional importance to this who's
to who where do we learn that I believe
it is in both the test is in the
testimony of Frazer
I don't recall now but there was no
evidence that I can remember I could be
wrong on this but I don't remember
Oswald having taken a lunch that day he
had only one package and it was a rather
large package it was about 24 inches
long there's some testimony that in the
case might be as much as 27 but because
the Commission's interest was in
stretching the length of the bag I'm
inclined to believe 24 so Oswald having
overslept and having been awakened by
his
wife who was subsequently quoted by the
commissioners saying he never ate
breakfast this time she said she'd make
it for him then she said she was
distressed when she found out that he
hadn't even made himself a cup of coffee
and he walked down the street to the
home of lil Lenny may Randall the
married sister of Wesley Buell Fraser
these are both young people according to
mrs. Randall she was in the kitchen and
they were breakfasting when she saw
Oswald coming down the street and he was
carrying a package her testimony is
specific it's graphic it's the kind of
testimony lawyers seek because it has in
it exactly those kind of incidents by
which people in real life do remember
things her testimony is quite explicitly
she said this looked like a grocery bag
that Oswald was carrying it having
curled and crunched up the top he was
carrying it by that at his side swinging
at his side and that the bag just barely
cleared the grass now this pretty much
fixes a maximum length on the bag at
about two feet she said that Oswald as
when he got to her home then opened the
back door of her brother's car put the
package on the seat and then himself got
into the front seat
it is Fraser's testimony that when he
got out of the car out of the home and
entered the car and said good morning to
as Walled he saw the package on the back
seat he has a clear recollection of
where it was and he subsequently with
great consistency showed exactly how far
from one side the package extended and
it was on the seat mind you not on the
floor Commission doesn't go into this
but I'd like to suggest it has some
importance if there is a disassembled
rifle in a flimsy bag with short metal
projections and even the wood
projections are sharp loose screws one
sudden stop of that and a telescopic
sight a fragile thing like a telescopic
sight attached a sudden stop of the car
would have sent the package crashing
from the seat onto the floor and if it
didn't break the package and reveal its
contents it certainly would have not
benefited the
functioning of the telescopic sight and
this is one that needed all the benefit
it could have now the Commission put to
the test
both Randall and mrs. Randall and Frazer
with reference to the length of the bag
and in each case their recollection was
they made they made them fold the bag in
before the interrogating let me let me
on yes indeed then let me let me
describe this testimony for the benefit
of the listeners before I explain it the
more the Commission tried to destroy
these two witnesses the more they
reinforced the story of both witnesses
and I'm telling you that the most
serious kind of efforts were made to
destroy the witnesses for example Fraser
was arrested and taken to the police
station and sweated he was given a
lie-detector test and if you believe
these things the lie-detector test
proved he was telling the truth the more
the witnesses were wheedled and cajoled
and efforts and effect made to
intimidate them the more they reaffirmed
this story and recalled specific things
which made their stories even more
credible let me give you an example of
this the Commission counsel kept asking
mrs. Randall to place the length on the
package and there are a number of
incidents during which the council never
says how long her representation is
there comes a point at which he seems
satisfied with the Commission counsel
and he says I forgotten was this ball I
believe it was Joseph ball and and he
says well we'll measure that and they
measure that and it's 28 inches and mrs.
Randall volunteered 27 last time they
said what you say she said 27 last time
I've done this many times and it usually
comes 27 inches so all of her
reenactments so she had reenacted this
before all you know that all the police
went over with her time and time again
if the Commission counsel didn't with
her brother we begin with this
misrepresentation by the report that
there was something sinister on this one
particular unique occasion by Oswald
leaving an advance
not at all was this the case because
Frasier testified that after he dreamt
up his motor a little bit and left what
he thought was a sufficient starting
charge in the battery
he walked behind Oswald toward the Book
Depository my recollection is that they
were about two blocks away and he said
if he hadn't known Oswald was carrying a
package he might not have noticed it
because Oswald had it cupped in the palm
of his right hand and tucked under his
armpit
well isn't that consistent then to say
that Jack Daugherty who was the person
who saw Oswald enter into the building
would have seen something well know that
he would not have seen something that
conceivably Oswald was except for one
thing that Frasier was looking from the
back and Daugherty from the front
Frasier was behind Oswald and Daugherty
was in front of Oswald Daugherty was in
the doorway as Oswald entered they were
face to face now this could have been
true if Oswald was carrying perhaps
something as small as the yardstick but
not for a package of a rifle well then
he arises what happened to the the bag
that Oswald brought to the building well
in the absence of any search by the
government or at least the reflection of
any search we have no way of knowing you
know they finally asked right truly
about it I think we should tell the
listeners what Fraser said Oswald said
was in the package curtain rods and when
the Commission made an effort through
its counsel to point out that they
didn't think this was curtain rods
Fraser took issue with him he said he
worked in the department store in
handled packages of curtain rods and
this seemed to him like precisely that a
package of curtain rods well are you
saying then that the curtain rods were
sequestered somewhere before Oswald
entered the building I really don't know
because again I won't endorse any of the
commissioners testimony of this sort
it's the most dubious sort of thing but
what I will tell you is this that with
this story of Oswald having carried
curtain rods toward if not into the
building and with the inability of
public authority to get those curtain
rods inside the building there is
absolutely no search now there are all
sorts of storage areas around there one
attached to the building the sheds
it wasn't until the following August
that an investigation was made and this
is the flimsiest kind of an
investigation a letter was written to
mr. Roy truly the manager the building
where any curtain rods found now you
might think that the police and the FBI
and the Secret Service and the various
detectives would have been interested in
this no interest I suggest that the
reason is obvious but in any event
months later Roy truly was asked and he
replied all curtain rods found that
brought to me in effect as though there
was a special department of the Book
Depository looking for a Miss located
curtain rods now there's nothing
honorable about this the obvious thing
was to check that story out in complete
detail the obvious thing because public
authority bears a responsibility most
people don't know it mr. O'Connor but
let me tell you that the responsibility
of a prosecutor under the canons of the
Bar Association are not to convict
people but to establish justice his
function is dual he is the prosecutor
but his obligation is justice and there
is absolutely no evidence that I have
found that anybody ever thought to check
out whether or not Oswald had a package
other than the rifle whether or not
there were curtain rods and as we know
all sorts of other Oswald Vienna if we
can call it that were not found until
months later weeks later and then under
the most mysterious and dubious
circumstances so there was no search for
the package Oswald carried so we have
this testimony that mrs. Randol saw
Oswald going to the car with a package
that Fraser saw the package in the car
and saw Oswald leaving toward the
building with it and that he followed
him now again the most serious and
strenuous kinds of efforts were made to
get Fraser to testify to what he would
not testify to he was a very stalwart
young man that stand up to all this
pressure beginning with the rest
and according to Frazier's testimony
there was real misrepresentation of what
happened because he corrected the
counsel on several occasions for example
the difference between
measuring a round package with a tape
measure and a yardstick now this was an
8 inch wide package and even with a
bulky overcoat Oswald's arm and he
didn't have one on by the way he had a
close-fitting jacket there's no
possibility of an eighth inch package
yes well the Commission nonetheless
feels incumbent to if feels that is
incumbent upon them to draw the
conclusion or I should say the inference
that if Oswald has and it has been
clearly established that he did have a
bag with him and that he was entering
the depository with a bag or approaching
the depository with a bag that that
indeed he did carry one in with him
because they they maintained that such a
bag was found you will not find in the
report that at the entrance to the
depository building there is the
entrance to a shed you will find it in
pictures when you have the official
surveyors charts and three different
versions of the same thing are in the
one burden of evidence instead of the
dimension of the building instead of its
outline you have a child's
representation of a line like children
are playing games every effort is made
to not make available to the people the
knowledge that there was a shed at that
point but I tell you there was and I'm
sure your own recollection from your own
investigation is that there is one right
alongside the building yes the FBI
reports a various sort talk about the
end of the building proper and the very
most obvious thing was to have checked
there I am quite confident that the
police did check there and I am quite
confident that they found nothing or
avoided what they found but there is no
doubt about it the only one man in the
entire world who saw Oswald enter the
building according to the record swore
specifically and vehemently that Oswald
had nothing now with this very
questionable evidence I think we can
forgive the Commission for making no
effort to trace Oswald from the back of
the first floor to
front of the sixth-floor with or without
a package even though the building was
at that point loaded with all of the
employees just reporting to work or just
beginning to work and uniquely something
out of the ordinary for that building
the focus of work was on the sixth floor
where a new floor was being laid and all
of these people working there not one
was asked that you see Oswald at 8
o'clock when he reported to work did you
see him carrying a package now in
another context mr. O'Connell I have
checked through the duplicated
interrogations of about 63 employees of
the school book depository on what they
saw that day and not one was asked this
question the Secret Service did it I
have found no evidence that the Secret
Service asked the question
the FBI subsequently did it and this was
done repeatedly and not one was asked
that question and I think that because
the Commission had to go 100% against
all of its testimony we may forgive them
for not jeopardizing the case even
farther the Commission solution was very
simple they just said 100% of their
evidence was wrong their own
preconception was right and thus did the
rifle get to the sixth floor thus was it
there for an entire half a day with all
of these people working there and nobody
saw it well now because of the
requirements of time I wonder if we
could necessarily make somewhat of a
jump and I wanted you to address
yourself to the when the Commission
maintains a bag was found on the sixth
floor when when did that there's a
little bit of indefiniteness about this
and here again I think we perhaps it
best be charitable and forgive them
because the police identification Squad
immediately went to work and they have
their own unique way of working the
first thing they did when they got into
the building was to move everything they
got up to the sixth floor and
Studebakers testimony on this is
explicit they scattered things right and
left there was a stack of boxes remember
that the report says was used as a gun
rest you reproduce those in Europe
did I do those is right absolutely
I only reproduce some of those that's
because I wanted to use facing pages so
the reader could see everything with one
view and I have only four of these
pictures but having initially follow
this unique Dallas science and police
work moved everything then according to
mr. Studebaker and the others they put
them back precisely where they were
precisely each one is disproved by all
of the others and all four are wrong and
all of the others that I didn't include
in whitewash are also wrong because the
Commission does reproduce them now it
depends on which time you listen to
which witness how many pictures were
taken but it is officially certified
that there were anything from 35 to 50
pictures and you can take your choice in
any event taking the lowest number 35 we
have around the generous supply of
photographs of the area not one includes
a bag well there is not because they
didn't know the bag was there because it
as the testimony of Studebaker that he
found it there is a one of the
photographs contains dots where the
notion says the bag was found even
though I think your pardon we're back in
the child's world again yes there were
dots drawn in to a photograph of that
corner showing where the bag was found
it was found by the photographer who
took pictures of everything else but not
that it was endorsed by a photographer
lieutenant day who was the boss and in
chief the identification squad the boss
of Studebaker who and father he said he
recognized its importance immediately
and he endorsed it with a time and place
and so forth and his name but this again
is a magical bag a truly magical bag
because it didn't have the finger prints
of day and it didn't have the
fingerprints of studebaker you did have
some finger prints of Oz well it was a
thumbprint and on the inside on the
inside on the inside as the bag was
fabricated you know I think fabricated
just exactly the right word
now I have recently in my work in the
Commission's files which hitherto her
secret found that the FBI refers to this
too but not as a bag as wrapping paper
for the first several days the FBI
account this not that of a bag but a
wrapping paper so we have all of this
magic with one incident magical boxes
that don't hold fingerprints magical
boxes that do hold fingerprints but the
wrong ones and unidentified ones we have
this magic of Oswald and scaling and
leaving no record behind we have the
magic of the bag that isn't there but it
is there of the pictures that are taken
but do not show it what was the
testimony of expert Cadogan with
reference to whether the bag could have
contained a rifle it wore no markings of
any rifle it did not have any oil or any
stain and yet the commissioner says
marina testified that Oswald kept his
rifle well oiled well didn't j.edgar
hoover maintained that also that the
rifle oil oh yes it was what was the
later FBI evaluation of whether the
rifle was well oiled or not I don't
recall them ever saying it wasn't but
they did say that at one point there was
a little bit of rust but it's my
recollection that even that point of
rust was covered by all this was
something in the both assembly now the
rifle the medal of the rifle had more
than the normal amount of access to the
wrapping because remember the rifle
according to the Commission and on this
they didn't even dare take testimony
because it couldn't possibly have been
any such testimony the rifle was about
35 36 inches long disassembled the
maximum length it could have been to
admit the description of the witnesses
was 24 inches so we give him a few more
inches and make it 27 to 28 and when the
rifle was put into a bag a duplicate bag
and Fraser was a witness and reluctantly
he was forced to show how Oswald
carried it it the rifle came up almost
to the top of Fraser's head and he said
you see I told you when the council said
well that's above you here he said you
see I told you so
again not only did it not have any
stains but while months later it still
preferred preserved the creases into
which presumably it had been folded for
transportation empty it didn't it didn't
contain the markings of the rifle and
which he had been dragging it all around
Irving in Dallas according to the
Commission's old story now but again the
bag is a magical one like they have
magical bullets and they have magical
witnesses and its really black magic I
wonder in the very few minutes remaining
to us mr. Weisberg if you could tell us
something about the cartridge cases
cartridge casings that were found on the
on the sixth floor what markings did
they were they were magically they had
no fingerprints
they were magical they had multiple
markings the Commission was profoundly
uninterested imagine mr. Hoover said
that these cartridge cases had been in
this weapon previously and in weapons
that were not this weapon in other words
these cartridge cases all bore
additional markings that they were not
just in this weapon one time you're
saying that they had been loaded into
another weapon and unloaded and this one
and unloaded now we have no way of
knowing when they were fired it's quite
conceivable from the scientific evidence
that the weapon that the cartridge cases
were fired on another occasion put back
into the rifle and then just put in and
ejected without anything being fired
from them but there's one that
absolutely was marked by a weapon not
this one now this kind of marking is as
unique as fingerprints as the FBI's
competence in this field is I think
without question expert oh absolutely
the best from who did did we get that
test that's mr. Hoover's he gave this in
the report to the Commission and I don't
think there's any question about mr.
Hoover knowing the FBI business he
invented it thank you we've been talking
this morning with Harold Weisberg the
author of whitewash mr. Weisberg as I
mentioned is an author from Hyatts town
Maryland and
newspaper and magazine writer and a
former Senate investigator I want to
thank you for coming to the studio today
mr. Weisberg and I hope that you will
come back and that we might address
ourselves to whitewash to your second
book at a later date thank you so much
thank you